Okay, Jim, Billingsley, let's see, today is May
the 9th, I think. Saturday is the 10th. I've got a
calendar here. Saturday is the 10th, May the 10th,
1997. Welcome to Jim Billingsley. And Jim, tell me
your full name, please. Jimmy. Jimmy, is it right?
Right, J-I-M-M-Y. That's your regular official
name, okay. That is correct. Middle initial or
name? L-I-L. L-I-S-L-E or L-Y? L-Y-S-L-E.
L-Y-S-L-E.
And where were you born?
And what year? May I ask? In 1932. Okay. We're
almost contemporaries. The Social Security
Office has a different opinion of the day that I was
born in July. Okay. All my life I thought it was the
26th, but when I applied for Social Security they
told me it was the 27th. Is that right? That's
interesting. So, thank you. Okay. Within 24
hours. And you're... Your parents were doing what
in Fulton? Uh, he had been
brought there some years before it was managed.
Telephone office.
With what telephone? Local? Southwest.
Southwest Middletown. And, uh, that was in Gene
Autry's time. And, uh, I don't know exactly when,
but they moved there about that. And Gene Autry was
a telegrapher? He was a telegrapher, uh-huh. With
the, uh, with the Tahoe gun there, or with the
railroad? Uh, I think the railroad. Yeah, I think
so, because I had an uncle who was a telegrapher,
and I remember that. I'm
going to put that in the book, and I think that's...
Also, there was another guy, an interesting now
that he was there about that time. He may have even
been the owner of P.J. Cochran,
C-O-N-K-W-R-I-G-H-T, who later became the chief
designer
at the Oklahoma Chris. And later after that went to
Princeton as their
chief designer. But he was out of retirement then.
He shared,
I'm told, a
studio with Redwood Gowdy, the Redwood Old Titans
fan, in Chicago. That's the story. Yeah, Gowder,
Gowder. Gowdy, G-O-W-D-Y. Okay,
I've seen it, yeah. Yeah. And how long were you in
Sepulchre? Until 1935, and was transferred
to Tulsa. So then you grew up in Tulsa? Yeah,
actually grew up in Tulsa. And did you go through
high school and the whole business in Tulsa? Yeah,
kindergarten through high school. And? And
beyond that, actually, university. Wait, let
me get this
right. So you left After high school. Went to OSU.
Went to OSU, okay. And then in service, and then
came back to TU,
and I finished there in 58. At Texas? No, Tulsa. At
Tulsa, yeah. And you finished at Tulsa in 58? What
were you in the service? In the Navy? No, I was in the
Army. One of the only atomic artillery units. What
was that? 280 millimeter field piece. It's
the one that they fired the warhead, atomic
warhead, down the corridor. It
was a life magazine. You may remember the old
picture. I think I may remember. It's got a gun in
the foreground, and a 11-inch gun. And we never
would get to Korea. That's interesting. Korea.
Yeah, we're good. They signed the name on the gun
before we... They shipped and they converted us
to come
to Mexico after
that. Yes, I agree. Where'd you go in Germany? I
lived in a town called Frankfurt. I don't know
where it was. It was in the French sector. Not far
from here. I don't know what properties got
robbed. And out of work. But it was in the French
sector. There was no German post in there. The
Catholic post, they lived in the old German
caserns. They used the old stone masonry facility
for the Germans to build before World War I. No one
was in Germany, was there? I think there were some
of them, but... Heidelberg. Heidelberg. Yes, he
was in Heidelberg. I think he was in Heidelberg. I
think I've forgotten the wrong one. I've
interviewed him just recently, but I can't
remember what it is. But I do remember Heidelberg,
and he was there three years, which was a good
stint, as I recall. Well, I tell
you, when I was in as a recruiter, he was still
trying to get us all to be more than short-timers.
Yeah. And
they tried to get me, but I went through the pattern
test and all that, and brought back your CES, and
then I found out it was at least a four-year stay.
And I told them, no, thank you. I had just gotten
married, and I had a baby. So we've just been
friends for interesting days, just to show you
that. Yeah.
Yeah. They watched the spirit here, and they went
to Oklahoma City for a free industrial
baseball game. And that guy came back. A couple of
guys didn't leave the bus that day, downtown in
Coliseum over there. And I guess it was CID, one of
those guys, he was one of the guys, to get the guys to
miss about seven hours. And I thought, you know,
doing that stuff, I like Vietnam, you know, it's,
you know, it's a protest, you know, I like that.
Those guys are just going to go. Yeah. Well, my dad
was here in the back for years. And so, my brother
and I hadn't, No choice. We were in the service, so
we could have planned it. And we did. My brother
actually enlisted, but I went through all of this
in my life. And all the K-fellas were supposed to
stay in there. And it wouldn't have been bad. No, it
wouldn't have been bad. So, when you get out of
service, your service really got out early
because Korea was over. and they were trying to get
to me.
They opened the window early, early late, so it was
a two-year ditch. So I actually got back about a
minute to you, and I got to Cal State. Were you still
under
the G.I. Bill? Uh-huh. Because, see, there was a
drop in there, and I missed it. Well, of course I got
an undergraduate degree, but then I was going to go
back to law school when G.I. Bill, when G.I. Bill
went out. Yeah. We were out of there. They closed it
off because I don't know how they calculated that.
If that had been in, I would have been a lawyer now,
I'm sure. Yeah, because I had one year of law school
already. There's hope for you yet. I was lucky. I
was lucky by now. Really, I tell you. But... There
was a cut-off, yeah, I remember that. Because
there was still live combat action. They extended
that. We could have easily ignored it. Some of us
did. Some of them did come back and flash
the flags. We were lucky. That's right. And then,
so you went through Tulsa, finished in what? 58. In
15, what kind of a degree? Really,
it
was commercial art. Reading, journalism,
drawing. What, was that in the Department of Art?
It was liberal arts. And, yeah, the Department of
Art within that. It
was headed by Alexander Hogue, who was a student.
It's not been gone very long. In fact, some of these
works are in the library of Austin. It was a
technical oil spreader in Wichita during World
War II. And
when that was over, we started using art as a
profession and then joined Tulsa. One of the
faculty, our faculty there, was a negative
person. The youth department was a negative
person. And Brad Place, a good old Texan, was
my advisor through those years. He was just
recently, maybe not so recently, he's retired,
but he's still in Pelman. And his daughter,
interestingly, is Mary Kay Price, who was on
Nash. She was one of the nurses on Nash. Anyway, she
kind of, you know, bought a star. Anyway. Had you
kind of grown up in art? Oh, yeah. Did you have high
school art? No, I didn't. I was in drafting. I had
two years of that.
Yeah,
it's good stuff. And S. L. Denverson back there at
Bill Roberts High School was a buddy and got a job
with George F. Kelly. company,
which is an oil field. He was an oil field
photographer. An entrepreneur that did mapping.
Many of his motorized maps are still working
now here in oil companies all over the Southwest.
And what were you doing with an oil field? What was
your job? Grassman. Production? Grassman. Post
oil production maps. from weekly, Ira Reinhart's
weekly report. It's the information source for
the industry on current production. It's a weekly
report, and we would post activities all over the
Southwest. Now, as a production draftsman,
you're doing the surface type? Yeah. This is
topographic drafting. Okay. And I went from
cycling around to... And I had this guy who did the
subsurface draft, and, you know, he'd shoot those
things off, and then he'd draw little squinty
lines and say, here's what it's like down there. He
hoped. He never knew. He, George Kelly, was so
frustrated with the way Texas was laid out that he
established what he called the Kelly Baseline,
which is a a grid of townships
and ranges in state texas and hoping that others
would look up on this this means that locating
things when he ran in descriptions like three
cigars west of the old old stunt locating a well it
left a little to be desired
but he he did that and uh So you started
with them when? The summer of 1950.
And you stayed with them then? All through. I
stayed with them that summer, and they went to A&M,
the school, for three semesters. And then we got
married, and I went into the service following
August. But I worked for the Sun and World
Companies Production Division there in Tulsa. as
a math draftsman for about
six months or so. Okay, and when you came back to
service, you got your degree, and then after
Tulsa, you resumed working with Kelly also. Okay,
okay. The supplement. Okay. The GI Bill. Good,
okay, gotcha. Okay,
through...
Then is when I joined, let's see, That's
a good night. Sometime, I don't know, I think it was
about 59, it was, I joined D.X. Sunrise, which is
the old big company. Yeah. And still is basically a
production brand. That's when I graduated as an
artist, and I joined D.X. as a commercial artist,
and advertised myself. Oh, okay.
When I came out of the
service, I took
a battery of tests.
We were at the VA office there on campus. I wasn't
quite sure at the moment. I had a business
curriculum set up. But I wasn't all that confident
in that
decision. So I went to VA and asked them to run me
through the library test. It was about three days.
Maybe you did it. No, I didn't. But I knew. I know
which one that was. And the profile on that came out
decidedly. Yeah,
as opposed to fine arts. So I said, fine. I mean,
we bar graphed them right now.
And they're super strong. That's interesting.
And so I said, OK. I thought, well, you know, I'm a
parent. I'd still like to be a champion. That's
interesting. It was not a bad move. Yeah. No, it
made me so much happier. Yeah. And that was such a
purely academic world. So there was a master to be
served there. So you were with Sunway for until
when?
That's when I went to OU. Now how did you get to own
that? I picked up an ad in the paper. There
was nothing
more than that. OU needed a designer.
There were two there at the time. And then the
editor, they called them. One of the few presses
that called them. You were an art editor. You were
either an assistant or associate art editor. And
the art editor
assignment was reserved for only special people.
Okay.
Like PJ Compton, who I mentioned before. Yeah,
right. And so I started doing it as the assistant
art editor, which was the designer and
production. in those days and the editor the press
editor director press
editor director was the editor-in-chief
And they were heavily Western American Indian.
Oh, yes. That was their thing. Western Americana.
And just about everywhere you went you saw Latin
American culture. And how long did you stay with
them? Four years? Oh, yes, six years. And then
what? I went to Tennessee. Tennessee. And what led
you to Tennessee? Money. Okay. And who's the
director of Tennessee? His name is Lewis
Igelhart. I-G-L-E. Is it L-E-W-I-S? Lewis.
L-O-U-L-E. L-O-U-L-E. I-G-L-E-H-A-R-T. It's a
small community, that's why I'm asking these
names, because I know that you've seen these
possible... Yeah. Igelhart. I-G-L-E-H-A-R-T.
Right. Great job. And so you went to Knoxville...
in roughly 1968.
And were you the design editor, or what did they
call you there? The press in France was really
established back in 1940 or 42, and the press
hadn't really grown, and they weren't developed,
but the university decided He
was moving up fast and he was a provost or something
at Tennessee before he came here. That was in the
70s. That was Andy Colt. He was president
at that
time. And,
uh... That's okay, I'm not, I'm just going to do it
more for my own benefit than... Just, I was trying
to
finish. Yeah. Yeah. Okay. Yeah, sure.
And so, you were at, uh... Tennessee then from 68
until?
86. Now. How come you left Tennessee and came to
Pennsylvania? Really long ago? Yeah. I won't put
it in front of you.
I
think it's shared by open gate to feminism in order
to, I always felt, along with others, they had to do
that to get federal funding for their projects. I
mean, it's a reality. And the director's job, when
Lewis retired, started out well, but after a few
years, it was bad. I
was the last male member on that staff, just when I
left. In fact, Lamar Alexander, who we know now as
the former educational secretary of the Bush, was
president, years since I was president, after
Bowling was fired, I guess. I ain't told. When he
and his wife made their initial visit to the campus
units, they came to the press, and his wife, as they
left, his wife, Honey, turned to someone and said,
where are the men? And there weren't any. So, I can
imagine what happened. I'm just saying, do you see
exactly what you're telling me to say? what
happened
there, and I, when they were exploring, possibly
the prospect of her coming, she was coming from
Princeton, and that was good, and like many other
outland press, universities and press like we
are, in Tennessee, and were certainly, they
unfortunately thought they wanted to be That's
why I'm
working on those taxes. Yeah. Okay. There you go.
And he said so in no uncertain terms in his letters.
Really? Oh, yeah. They're classic. Some of them
are really good. Right, yeah. I always knew I liked
them. Yeah. But I tell you, the cultural shock
there was just something dealt with. And I think
it's a disservice to everyone concerned because
in the end, they recruit from them. I can live and
stick them out here in the boonies that these
people don't understand, and there's no other
ways, or, you know, anything about getting back to
where you live after a little while. That's right.
Especially at A&M. I've been at A&M more so than
business in the past. And it's part of the richness
of A&M to me. The tradition is still here, and it's
protected for so long. But you can only stand up
there for so long and protect that. So, how did you
pick up on a job here? Well, I had been raised with
Milo, who was the first owner to that company,
designer and production manager. He had been
needing help as the list grew from time to time,
which led him outside
to And a lot of us did this. We'd say the name
ourselves, you know, and help. Anyway, we were
talking and somehow I learned to help and I was
always willing to help. And it was like all the
Indian books at Oklahoma.
By the time I left Oklahoma, I felt like it had been
my last Indian book. I had drained. anyway i didn't
know he was into
urban history uh it was natural
history
and uh Well, it seems to me there's a good book on
Memphis or something. A classic in urban history
at the time. That's the book. In fact, I remember
that book. That was a good book. Really
interesting. We actually
did the first, they say, oral history on One of
the first books in the office was
formally published, and it had me on the saga's
title, Saga of Coe Ridge, which was a little
Melungeon mixed-race community in the Kenny
Brown community on the northern Tennessee
southern Kentucky border on the Cumberland
River, which was a kind of a rich thing. And in that
case, I'm going to have them actually
photographed on site. Some of those little cabins
and things that are up in here. So A&M, when did the
flag come up from A&M? Ray Dine. Yeah. He was not
well, and I didn't, I
had several, I didn't help him.
Uh, so anyway, I had to help him in, and the lawyers
are noble. I don't know if I knew anybody, and I
said, how about me? Because
I was running out of guts, you know, out of
patience, I guess, you know, with the situation.
And, uh, we just rolled around and talked to
people. I sure liked the people I saw. The
facilities, the West, um, very famous. Good
people. Okay, now, let's talk about Lloyd. I know
Lloyd real well. I feel like I do. But I'm amazed.
Lloyd, according to all the letter files, Lloyd
was up to it. Apparently, I'm not putting words in
your mouth, but he was on top of that. I never knew. I
thought Lloyd was laid back, undirected kind of
guy. And he crossed every T, apparently, in terms
of administering the press. That was my attitude.
Tell me about law. When you came, what did you find
here? Tell me about A&M, too. You're in the county
with A&M. Just kind of give me an impression of what
you're walking into. Well, when you came, gosh,
people just couldn't be nicer. You know,
everybody...